---
title: Connecting Devices in IoT Central to Azure Blockchain Workbench
---

Version 1.0

Overview
========

This sample focuses on the receipt, transformation, and delivery of messages
from associated devices with [Azure IoT
Central](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-central/overview-iot-central)
to Azure Blockchain Workbench.

Specifically, this sample provides guidance on:

-   Deployment of Azure IoT Central

-   Association a real or simulated device

-   Configuration of simulated device to work with a Workbench application

-   Development of Microsoft Flow, which will connect alerts fired from devices
    associated with Azure IoT Central to Azure Blockchain Workbench

This sample is designed to work with the [Refrigerated Transportation sample
application](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/blockchain/tree/master/blockchain-workbench/application-and-smart-contract-samples/refrigerated-transportation)
and contracts but can easily be adapted to other contracts by making changes to
the configured alerts in Azure IoT Central and messages being pushed to Azure
Blockchain Workbench.

Sample Flow Table of Contents
=============================

This sample is complex and involves multiple steps. Below is a high-level flow
of the sample with links to the associated section within the sample:

-   [Deploy Azure IoT Central](#deploy-azure-iot-central)

-   [Add a device to Azure IoT Central](#add-a-device-to-azure-iot-central)

-   [Connect a device with Azure Blockchain
    Workbench](#connect-a-device-with-azure-blockchain-workbench)

-   [Create device alert rules](#create-device-alert-rules)

-   [Create device alert actions](#create-device-alert-action)

-   [Create a Microsoft Flow to connect with Azure Blockchain
    Workbench](#create-a-microsoft-flow-to-connect-with-azure-blockchain-workbench)

-   [Testing](#testing)

Deploy Azure IoT Central
========================

Azure IoT Central is a fully managed IoT Software-as-a-Service solution that
makes it easy to create products that connect the physical and digital worlds.
With Azure IoT Central you are able to manage a collection of real and/or
simulated devices, monitor readings from devices, troubleshoot and remediate
issues with devices, define custom rules and actions based on data from devices,
and provision new devices.

We recommend reading the [Azure IoT Central
documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-central/overview-iot-central)
before getting started with this sample.

The following steps outline how to deploy Azure IoT Central:

1.  Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).

2.  Select your account in the top right corner, and switch to the desired Azure
    AD tenant where you want to deploy Azure IoT Central.

3.  In the left pane, select **Create a resource**. Search for “IoT Central” in
    the **Search the Marketplace** search bar.

    ![](media/8e3504a14832c2885eb1198cbe9cee45.png)

4.  Select **IoT Central Application**.

5.  Select **Create**.

6.  Complete the fields in the creation form.

    ![](media/46bc1a688f54a5d3f9f01fb470862507.png)

7.  Select **Create** to deploy your Azure IoT Central application.

Add a Device to Azure IoT Central
=================================

Once your Azure IoT Central deployment completes, you can now access Azure IoT
Central application by navigating to Azure IoT Central [Application
Manager](https://aka.ms/iotcentral) page. Select the application you created in
the previous step or create a new application following the [create an Azure IoT
Central
application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-central/quick-deploy-iot-central)
documentation.

You should now have access to your Azure IoT Central application, which allows
you to manage connected IoT devices. Depending on your solution requirements,
you are able to add a collection of real and/or simulated devices. The
refrigerated transportation Workbench application requires the following
readings from a real or simulated device:

-   Temperature

-   Humidity

-   Timestamp

For the sake of simplicity, this sample will go over the creation of a simulated
device, which will be able to work with the refrigerated transportation
Workbench application. Note, real devices, which collect the required readings
can also work, but is not covered in this sample. You can find documentation on
connecting real devices to Azure IoT Central in the [add a
device](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-central/tutorial-add-device)
documentation.

For reference, please refer to the [define a new device
type](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-central/tutorial-define-device-type)
documentation for creating simulated devices in Azure IoT Central. The following
steps show you how to create a new refrigerated transportation compatible device
template, which can send temperature and humidity telemetry to your application:

1.  On the **Application Builder** page, choose **Create Device Template**.

2.  On the **Device Templates page**, choose **Custom**.

3.  On the **New Device Template** page, enter the unique name of your simulated
    device.

4.  In your new device template, make sure you are on the **Measurements** page,
    which will allow you to define the measurements the device is capturing.

5.  Choose **Edit Template**.

6.  To add temperature telemetry measurement, choose **New Measurement**.

7.  Choose **Telemetry**.

8.  In the **Create Telemetry** pane, fill in applicable fields. Be sure to
    specify a minimum and maximum temperature value, which is in nominal range
    for your scenario. Click **Save** when done. Here is an example of filled
    out telemetry for temperature:

    ![](media/a8392ce659ac43ede5ad210698bebf24.png)

9.  To add humidity telemetry measurement, choose **New Measurement**.

10. Choose **Telemetry**.

11. In the **Create Telemetry** pane, fill in applicable fields. Be sure to
    specify a minimum and maximum humidity value, which is in nominal range for
    your scenario. Click **Save** when done. Here is an example of filled out
    telemetry for humidity:

    ![](media/c67bc318ffc2c291d5802da11ac92a79.png)

12. At this point your simulated device has all the necessary telemetry needed
    to work with the refrigerated transportation Workbench application. Choose
    **Done** to ensure the device template is saved.

Connect a Device with Azure Blockchain Workbench
================================================

Azure Blockchain Workbench relies on unique identities for all entities, users
and devices, which perform transactions on the blockchain. These identities are
managed within Azure Active Directory. The following high-level steps are needed
to have a device work with Workbench:

1.  (Pre-requisite) Add stored procedures to Azure Blockchain Workbench’s
    database deployment.

2.  Create an Azure AD user for each device you want to use with Azure
    Blockchain Workbench.

3.  Provision device user in Azure Blockchain Workbench.

4.  Associate device ID of the device with the provisioned user in Azure
    Blockchain Workbench.

The below sections go in details for each of the high-level steps outlined
above.

Deploy Stored Procedures for Azure Blockchain Workbench
-------------------------------------------------------

You need to complete the following steps as a pre-requisite to connecting
devices to Azure Blockchain Workbench:

1.  Download the following file of stored procedures, which is needed to support
    this sample. The file can be downloaded from this location:
    <https://github.com/Azure-Samples/blockchain/blob/master/blockchain-workbench/iot-integration-samples/SQL/IoTSprocs.sql>

2.  Open a Web browser and navigate to the [Azure
    portal](http://portal.azure.com).

3.  Navigate to the database deployed as part of your Azure Blockchain Workbench
    deployment.

4.  Choose **Query editor**.

    ![](media/318c2c122e516782a3402ba2dcf661ed.png)

5.  Enter your login and password information and choose **OK**. Note, login is
    set to “dbadmin” and password was specified at Azure Blockchain Workbench
    deployment.

6.  Choose **Open query** and select the stored procedure file you downloaded in
    the previous step.

7.  Choose **Run** to create the stored procedures in the database.

Create an Azure AD User for Devices
-----------------------------------

Azure Blockchain Workbench relies on Azure AD users to perform transactions on
the blockchain. This statement implies devices must be associated with unique
Azure AD accounts to participate in transactions. Refer to [manage users in
Azure Blockchain
Workbench](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/blockchain/workbench/manage-users)
documentation for more information on creating and managing users within Azure
AD.

The following steps show you how to associate devices with Azure AD accounts,
which can be used within Azure Blockchain Workbench:

1.  Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/).

2.  Select your account in the top right corner, and switch to the Azure AD
    tenant associated to Blockchain Workbench.

3.  Select **Azure Active Directory \> Users**. You see a list of users in your
    directory.

4.  Choose **New user** to add a new user to the directory.

    ![New user](media/543a3d5165c34b1dae0aecc100aaa6f5.png)

5.  Complete the required fields for the new user. This new user will represent
    the device you want to use with Azure Blockchain Workbench. Choose
    **Create**.

Provision Device User in Azure Blockchain Workbench
---------------------------------------------------

Users added to Azure AD tenant associated to Blockchain Workbench can use the
Azure Blockchain Workbench Web client. There are two different ways to provision
a user added to Azure AD in Azure Blockchain Workbench:

1.  Manually have the user login to Azure Blockchain Workbench.

2.  Use the Azure Blockchain Workbench API to provision an Azure AD user for
    Azure Blockchain Workbench.

For method \#1, manually login to the Web client of Azure Blockchain Workbench.
Logging in the first time will automatically provision the user from Azure AD as
a registered user within Azure Blockchain Workbench.

For method \#2, you can use Azure Blockchain Workbench REST API to provision the
user without needing the user to sign in manually. Specifically, you will need
to use POST /api/v1/users to provision the user.

Either method will work, but you need to do one of them.

Associate Device ID with Provisioned Device User
------------------------------------------------

Once a device user is provisioned in Azure Blockchain Workbench, we need to
associate the device ID of the device with the provisioned user. The following
steps show you how to associate the device ID with the provisioned user:

1.  Navigate to Azure IoT Central [Application
    Manager](https://aka.ms/iotcentral) page.

2.  Select the application you created in the previous steps with the device you
    want to associate with the provisioned device user in Azure AD.

3.  On **Device Explorer** page, find the device you want to associate with the
    provisioned Azure AD user.

4.  **Copy** the Device ID of the applicable device.

    ![](media/f7c4793378506103b8d14983dec9a95f.png)

5.  Navigate to the [Azure portal](http://portal.azure.com).

6.  Navigate to the database deployed as part of your Azure Blockchain Workbench
    deployment.

7.  Choose **Query editor**.

8.  In the query window, enter and execute the following SQL:

    Update [User] Set ExternalId = ‘\<your device id here\>’ where EmailAddress
    = ‘\<insert email address of device user here\>’

Create Device Alert Rules
=========================

At this point we’ve added a device to Azure IoT Central and have provisioned
that device as a user for Azure Blockchain Workbench. We now need to connect
Azure IoT Central to Azure Blockchain Workbench via device alert rules and
Microsoft Flow. The device alert rules will specify when data will flow from
Azure IoT Central to Azure Blockchain Workbench. Device alert rules will be
created for temperature and humidity readings, which exceed some threshold we
care about. For sake of simplicity, this sample will show the creation of one
alert for capturing temperature readings higher than some value.

The following steps show you how to configure a device alert rule for the device
ID with the provisioned user:

1.  Navigate to Azure IoT Central [Application
    Manager](https://aka.ms/iotcentral) page.

2.  Select the application you created in the previous steps with the device you
    want to associate with the provisioned device user in Azure AD.

3.  On **Device Explorer** page, select the device you want to create device
    alert rules.

4.  Choose **Rules** to navigate to the Rules page.

5.  Choose **Edit Template**.

6.  To add a new rule, choose **New Rule**.

7.  Choose **Telemetry**.

8.  In the **Configure Telemetry Rule** pane, enter a name for the rule.

9.  Choose **+** in **Conditions** section to add new alert condition.

10. For **Measurement**, choose **Temperature**.

11. Leave **Aggregation** to **None**.

12. Set **Operator** to **is greater than**.

13. For **Threshold** specify a value above the nominal maximum temperature
    setting specified for the device in the previous step.

14. Choose **+** in **Conditions** section to add new alert condition.

15. For **Measurement**, choose **Humidity**.

16. Leave **Aggregation** to **None**.

17. Set **Operator** to **is greater than or equal to**.

18. For **Threshold** specify **0**.

19. Click **Save** when done. Here is an example of filled out telemetry rule
    for temperature above **6**:

    ![](media/c0542e139be87a8f83754913032f6adf.png)

Create Device Alert Action
==========================

Alerts will now fire whenever the conditions specified in the previous steps are
met. However, these alerts will not go anywhere as we have not specified any
routing. Luckily, Azure IoT Central makes it easy to take actions on alerts. The
following steps show you how to configure a device alert action for the rules
you created in the previous steps:

1.  Navigate to Azure IoT Central [Application
    Manager](https://aka.ms/iotcentral) page.

2.  Select the application you created in the previous steps with the device you
    want to associate with the provisioned device user in Azure AD.

3.  On **Device Explorer** page, select the device you want to create device
    alert rules.

4.  Choose **Rules** to navigate to the Rules page.

5.  Choose **Edit Template**.

6.  To add a new rule, choose **New Rule**.

7.  Select the rule you created in the previous steps.

8.  Choose **+** in **Actions** section to add new alert action.

9.  Choose **Email**.

10. Enter your email address and name for the email action. This alert action
    will be helpful in debugging in case you are wondering if an alert fired.

11. Choose **+** in **Actions** section to add new alert action.

12. Choose **Microsoft Flow**.

The next section will cover details on creating a Microsoft Flow to connect to
Azure Blockchain Workbench.

Create a Microsoft Flow to Connect with Azure Blockchain Workbench
==================================================================

The following steps outline the necessary steps to create a Microsoft Flow,
which is able to connect Azure IoT Central to Azure Blockchain Workbench:

1.  Confirm the creation of a new Microsoft Flow by choosing **Continue**.

    ![](media/e9ba94b280a4050ab4f198c46d54eb03.png)

2.  For the **When a rule is fired** step, specify the Azure IoT Central
    application and the device alert rule you are using:

![](media/8a3579b2346513bc5ec1478e0f78324e.png)

1.  Choose **Add an action** to add a new step.

2.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Initialize
    variable**.

3.  For **Name,** specify “TimestampInt.” For **Type**, specify **Integer**. For
    **Value**, specify “div(sub(ticks(triggerBody()['timestamp']),ticks('1970-01-01')),10000000)” under **Expression**.

    ![](media/05b2f798fc3e5c27a41887be60563ccd.png)

4.  Choose **Add an action** to add a new step.

5.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Execute stored
    procedure** for SQL Server.

6.  Enter connection details to connect to you Azure Blockchain Workbench SQL
    database.

7.  For **Procedure name**, select [dbo].[GetContractInfoForDeviceId].

8.  For DeviceID, use **DeviceID** found in the **When a rule is fired** section
    of **Dynamic content**.

    ![](media/c01c338c686644b3e93c42a92e55ee80.png)

9.  Choose **Add an action** to add a new step.

10. In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Parse JSON**.

11. For **Content**, select **ResultSets** found in **Variables** section of
    **Dynamic content**.

    ![](media/91575376c5ba5257036e1115510cdcd2.png)

12. For **Schema**, copy and paste the following JSON:

{

"properties": {

"Table1": {

"items": {

"properties": {

"ConnectionId": {

"type": "number"

},

"ContractCodeBlobStorageUrl": {

"type": "string"

},

"ContractId": {

"type": "number"

},

"ContractLedgerIdentifier": {

"type": "string"

},

"IngestTelemetry_ContractPersonaID": {},

"IngestTelemetry_ContractWorkflowFunctionID": {

"type": "number"

},

"IngestTelemetry_Humidity_WorkflowFunctionParameterID": {

"type": "number"

},

"IngestTelemetry_Temperature_WorkflowFunctionParameterID": {

"type": "number"

},

"IngestTelemetry_Timestamp_WorkflowFunctionParameterID": {

"type": "number"

},

"UserChainIdentifier": {

"type": "string"

},

"WorkflowFunctionId": {

"type": "number"

},

"WorkflowFunctionName": {

"type": "string"

},

"WorkflowName": {

"type": "string"

}

},

"required": [

"ContractId",

"WorkflowFunctionId",

"ConnectionId",

"ContractLedgerIdentifier",

"ContractCodeBlobStorageUrl",

"UserChainIdentifier",

"WorkflowFunctionName",

"WorkflowName",

"IngestTelemetry_ContractWorkflowFunctionID",

"IngestTelemetry_ContractPersonaID",

"IngestTelemetry_Humidity_WorkflowFunctionParameterID",

"IngestTelemetry_Temperature_WorkflowFunctionParameterID",

"IngestTelemetry_Timestamp_WorkflowFunctionParameterID"

],

"type": "object"

},

"type": "array"

}

},

"type": "object"

}

1.  Choose **Add an action** to add a new step.

2.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Initialize
    variable**.

3.  For **Name,** specify “RequestId.” For **Type**, specify **String**. For
    **Value**, specify “guid()” under **Expression**.

    ![](media/57e1601e93a8c27f67d2d85ed064e95f.png)

4.  Choose **Add an action** to add a new step.

5.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Initialize variable**.

6. For **Name,** specify “HumidityInt.” For **Type**, specify **Integer**. For
    **Value**, specify “int(split(string(triggerBody()?['device']?['measurements']?['telemetry']?['Humidity']),'.')[0])” under **Expression**.
    
7. Choose **Add an action** to add a new step.

8.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Initialize variable**.

9. For **Name,** specify “TemperatureInt.” For **Type**, specify **Integer**. For
    **Value**, specify “int(split(string(triggerBody()?['device']?['measurements']?['telemetry']?['Temperature']),'.')[0])” under **Expression**.
    
10.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter and select **Apply to each**.

11.  For **Select an output from previous steps**, specify **Table1** under
    **Parse JSON**.

12.  Within **Apply to each** step, choose **Add an action**.

13.  In **Search connectors and actions**, enter **Service Bus** and select
    **Send message**.

14.  Specify the Service Bus action to connect and use the Service Bus resource
    deployed as part of Azure Blockchain Workbench. Note, when specifying the
    Service Bus connection string, make sure you use a policy with a **Manage**
    claim. To get the Service Bus connection string, choose **Shared access
    Policies** under **Settings** of the Service Bus resource. Select the
    appropriate policy and copy the appropriate connection string.

15. For **Queue/Topic name**, specify **activityhub (queue)**.

16. For **Session Id**, specify **RequestId** under **Variables** in **Dynamic
    content**.

    ![](media/f524ff688d4262bb7743ef7e6b793c25.png)

17. For **Content**, copy and paste the following JSON:

{

"ContractActionId": null,

"ConnectionId":,

"UserChainIdentifier": "",

"ContractCodeArtifactBlobStorageURL": "",

"OperationName": "CreateContractAction",

"ContractLedgerIdentifier": "",

"WorkflowFunctionName": "IngestTelemetry",

"WorkflowName": "RefrigeratedTransportation",

"ContractActionParameters": [

{

"name": "humidity",

"value": ""

},

{

"name": "temperature",

"value": ""

},

{

"name": "timestamp",

"value": ""

}

],

"RequestId": ""

}

1.  Augment **Content** with values from the **Dynamic content** window to match
    the screenshot below:

    ![](media/aaecb2ab4abad1d880792ca269f69daa.png)

2.  Choose **Save** to save your completed Microsoft Flow.

3.  Make sure you **Save** your configured device rule within Azure IoT Central
    and choose **Done** to save device template.

Testing
=======

At this point you have configured a device within Azure IoT Central, which will
fire an alert when specific conditions are met, where the alert data is pushed
to Azure Blockchain Workbench. To complete this sample, you need to do the
following:

1.  Use the device in a refrigerated transportation application.

2.  Trigger a device event, which fires the device alert rule specified in
    previous steps.

For \#1, reference the [manage Workbench
users](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/blockchain/workbench/manage-users)
and [use blockchain
app](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/blockchain/workbench/use)
documentation. At a high-level, you need to do the following:

1.  Add the device user as a member of the refrigerated transportation Workbench
    application. Ensure the device is specified with a **Device** role.

    ![](media/90e82c7920ac9359e6b245c116c193de.png)

2.  Create a contract with the device user and ensure the minimum and maximum
    temperature and humidity values are within the nominal ranges you specified
    when creating your simulated device.

    ![](media/188a829b8a593736143876e92af9b0f3.png)

The following steps show you how to fire a device alert rule for the device:

1.  Navigate to Azure IoT Central [Application
    Manager](https://aka.ms/iotcentral) page.

2.  Select the application you created in the previous steps with the device you
    want to associate with the provisioned device user in Azure AD.

3.  On **Device Explorer** page, select the device you are using.

4.  Make sure you are on the **Measurements** page.

5.  Choose **Edit Template**.

6.  Choose **Edit** for the **Temperature Telemetry** setting.

7.  Change the minimum and maximum values to be greater than the value specified
    in the device alert rule.

8.  Choose **Save** and then **Done** to ensure the device template is saved.

Check your contract in Azure Blockchain Workbench. You should now see it an
**Out of Compliance** state.

![](media/ab892c6a6edb20de3390bac9323df2b7.png)

Review
======

This sample deployed and configured Azure IoT Central, added a simulated device
to Azure IoT Central, connected the device to Azure Blockchain Workbench,
created device alert rules and actions, and created a Microsoft Flow connecting
IoT Central with Azure Blockchain Workbench.

This sample is designed to work with the Refrigerated Transportation sample
application and contracts but can be easily adapted to other contracts by making
changes to Service Bus – Send a Message action at the end of the sample to
reflect the specifics of the new contract.
